He writes in the last lesson we've talked about file paths in this lesson we're gonna put those to use
for stuff.
Let's put some headings into our notebook so this one here.
I'm going to change to mockup and we're gonna keep all our notebook imports in the cell below the next
section heading I'm going to add is gonna be called Constance This is where we're going to add all our
file parts.
We're gonna have a single cell where we're gonna put all the pieces of information that don't change.
Now I want to work more in the middle of the screen for you guys but one of the handy things about you
put a notebook is that it's got all these handy keyboard shortcuts and under the help menu the keyboard
shortcuts for Jupiter are outlined right here.
So I can see that scrolling down my keyboard shortcut for inserting a new cell it's just pressing the
letter B when I'm in command mode.
Yeah there's two modes.
There's the edit mode and there's the command mode.
You can tell that you're in the edit mode when the cell is green because your code says blinking.
And you can tell that you're in the command mode when the cell is blue.
So if I press B on my keyboard right now what I'm in command mode then I get new cells appearing like
so.
Now what I'll do is I'm going to create a constant and call it example underscore file and this constant
will have my file path to my practice underscore e-mail that t x t file and this is gonna be my relative
path have a good naming convention by the way for constants.
In other words for values that you don't want to update is to write them like so with capital letters
separated by an underscore the next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to copy the file path to this
practice email.
So I'm going to go to get info and I'm going to copy this file path here close this go here and then
in my single quotes I'm going to paste it in here because I'm just interested in the relative file path
not the absolute file path I'm going to delete this bit here.
So it's just going to read spam data.
0 1 processing.
And then what I want to do at the end isn't going to tack on the file name.
So practice underscore.
Email Dot T X.
I'm going to include the extension as well so I'll have my relative path from my email projects folder
where this notebook lives going into the 0 1 processing folder and then I'll have my file name at the
end.
Now if you're working alongside with me make sure you don't have any typos here.
Make sure using the forward slashes instead of the back slashes.
And if your text matches mine and your practice underscore e-mail that text file is in exactly the same
location as my file then we're not going to have any issues.
Now let's practice reading a single file so I'll add a new section heading here.
Call it reading files and in here we're going to start talking to our operating system.
The kind of object the kind of thing that we need to read a file from the disk is called a stream or
a file object in Python.
You can open a particular file with the built in open function and this open function of course needs
to know which file it's meant to open in our case.
We're just going to use the constant that we defined above.
I'm going to type X and hit tab on my keyboard to insert the rest of this code because we've hit shift
enter on the cell to put a notebook actually recognizes this name here and it will autocomplete the
name for us.
Which really speeds up our typing now that we've called the Open function.
It will return to us a file object or a stream.
Now I want to store this object in a variable so see stream equals open parentheses.
Example file once I've got my stream I can read the individual lines in this file so when I see stream
don't read parentheses this method will go through the lines of the file one by one and I'm going to
store the output of this method in a variable called message.
When I'm done reading my file I'm going to tell Python to stop looking at this file because we've reached
the end and we're not planning to do anything further with it.
Someone as a stream dot close parentheses.
All right so we've opened a file we've read the contents we've stored those contents in a variable and
then we've closed our stream because we're done reading the file.
Let's print out the contents of this file so print message shift enter and here's what we have.
This is the structure of an email.
The first bit is called the email header so it has all this information about who sent the email who
it was to who was CCD what was the subject and so on.
And then after the header there's a blank line.
What follows is the email body.
Now this text here is an email body that I've copied from a book called The Time waste the letters by
Robyn Cooper.
And if you ever looking for a humorous read then check out this book coming back up to our Python code
let me press shift tab on my open function and take a closer look at the quick documentation we can
see here that in the parameters there's a couple of inputs.
The first one of course is the file.
The second input has a default value of r.
So this means that by default we are only reading the file not writing one.
The next parameter that I want to talk about is this thing called encoding which by default is set to
None.
And encoding is how the computer handles letters and text after all.
Every character needs to be translated into ones and zeros at the end of the day.
In the days of early computers this was fairly simple because computers really only supported 127 American
English characters.
This was called ASCII.
If you were French for example and had an accent above a letter then you were out of luck.
No accents for you for that show pas he quickly.
If you are Russian or Chinese or Thai or Indian or German or well from anywhere really then you are
also screwed.
ASCII doesn't have a character for the letters in your alphabet.
Hang the upside people more creative than I have used ASCII characters to create some really neat art
to make the Internet a much more interesting place.
Back in R Python code.
If we leave the encoding blank as we have done here we will use the default system encoding what's the
default encoding on our system.
Well let's make Jupiter actually tell us explicitly if we import the system library and then write sis
don't get file system encoding parentheses and hit shift enter.
We can see what the default file system encoding is on our own machines.
So in my case it's UTF 8 UTF 8 is Unicode which is the python 3 standard as well.
If you have a different default encoding set on your machine I'd actually be quite curious to know so
please do share the common section for this lesson.
Now since your default and my default might be different and I also know that these spam messages in
our dataset are written in English you and I should specify the same encoding that way we will both
get the same results and for that purpose we will use an encoding called Latin dash one coming back
up here to our open function and we add an argument for our encoding.
I can type in tab on my keyboard then enter to insert single quotes Latin hyphen 1 and if I hit shift
enter now on the cell we can see that we read the exact same file and we can still retrieve our message
body.
Now one thing that you might be quite curious about is what is this message variable here.
In other words what is this read method actually return from the stream.
We can have a look at this by printing out the type of the message variable.
So if I wrap my type function into a print statement we can do just that so print parentheses type parentheses
message and then closing the parentheses and heading shift into we can see that we are dealing with
a string.
In other words we open the file we read the contents of the file that leaves us with a string or a piece
of text then we close the file and printing the file out like this shows it to us below the cell.
Brilliant.
Now even though this is an example email that I've included as part of the lesson resources.
This example email still shows us the general format for all the emails in the dataset and they all
look very very similar right.
They have a header at the very top which includes all sorts of information namely where the email was
sent from who it was sent to the subject of the email.
The timestamps when the email was sent and even the timestamps of the email transfer agents and the
rooting information of the email.
Now typically as a user if you fire up Gmail or Hotmail or outlook or what have you.
All of this is hidden but it's still there even though it's usually rendered invisible.
Now for our purposes of training the spam classifier what we will do is we will look exclusively at
the body of our email files.
We're actually going to ignore the header and just focus our attention on extracting the email body
and I'll show you how to do just that in the next lessons.
Now before I move on.
I just wanna leave you with a nice tidbit in coatings are actually a pretty interesting niche topic
on their own and the X KCET webcomic has actually done a lovely strip on Unicode and you know what.
I've even seen the ascii table get its own scene and be a major plot point in the movie The Martian
which was as far as I remember are all about saving Matt Damon.
Anyhow check it out and I'll see you in the next lesson.